---
layout: single
title:  "Building the snake game [part 1]"
toc: true
comments: true
categories: [game, snake]
tags: [python, pyxel]
---

This is me trying to build some simples games. This one is the snake game, famous from old era, when phones were not smart, they were just phones. The snake game was the king, one of the best games available at the time. Below you'll find my attempt to implement it using the Pyxel framework for Python.

## Rev your engines

Yes! This is it, we are going to write our first game. This is going to be pretty simple (well, kinda...), as we are going to write the snake game. For every project in this blog, I'll have a GitHub repository, and will try to structure the repo just like the posts, with incremental commits, so that you can follow along more easily. As the result of every post we will have a working version of the game, a little better the last version.

One important note to make is this one: *I am not a professional game develpoper*. And what does that mean? It means that probably I won't make the best decisions about how to implement things. I am passionate about coding, have some experience in it, and I am now trying to build some games. If you think there is a better way to address some specific parts of the game, feel free to tell me in the comments. Please be kind, I like having **constructive** feedback.

### Language and game engine

I really like [Python](https://www.python.org/) as an introductory language to programming, so that's the language we are gonna use. It's free, open source and available for every major platform. Go check it out if you haven't already. It is also important to notice that, I am not going to explain every little bit of code. I'll try my best, but this series of posts are though to help the novice programmer how to approach a slightly bigger problem than they are used to.

There are many game engines for Python, but [Pyxel](https://github.com/kitao/pyxel) is growing on me. It's a retro game engine for Python. Retro game engines are fun because they *kindly impose* somes restrictions, forcing you to build smaller, simpler games, resembling games from older platforms, but using modern technologies. This first game will also be used as a tutorial on how to use the basic features of Pyxel. So let's get to it.

## The first bits of code
